backend/alembic/README.md, before:

# Alembic Migration

We use alembic to manage database migration.
Migration management is used to ensure that changes to a database schema are
consistent and deterministic.

In order to apply all migrations, run the following:

```bash
alembic upgrade head
```

In order to roll back all migrations, run the following:

```bash
alembic downgrade base
```

Migrations can also be applied one-at-a-time by using

```bash
alembic upgrade +1
```

Migrations should be created on all database changes using

```bash
alembic revision -m "descriptive message here"
```

This will generate a new file called something like "abcdef123456_descriptive_message_here.py". It will contain an "upgrade" method should take the
current table state and update it to the new table schema, and a "downgrade" method that should take the upgraded table state and turn it back
into the prior schema. You should be able to use existing SQLAlchemy methods to modify the database, rather than raw SQL queries.

For more information on creating and managing migrations, [read the docs](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html#create-a-migration-script

Commit message:

backend: remove sqlalchemy query migrations
They don't support cascade drops for some reason.

backend/alembic/README.md, after:

# Alembic Migration

We use alembic to manage database migration.
Migration management is used to ensure that changes to a database schema are
consistent and deterministic.

In order to apply all migrations, run the following:

```bash
alembic upgrade head
```

In order to roll back all migrations, run the following:

```bash
alembic downgrade base
```

Migrations can also be applied one-at-a-time by using

```bash
alembic upgrade +1
```

Migrations should be created on all database changes using

```bash
alembic revision -m "descriptive message here"
```

This will generate a new file called something like "abcdef123456_descriptive_message_here.py". It will contain an "upgrade" method should take the
current table state and update it to the new table schema, and a "downgrade" method that should take the upgraded table state and turn it back
into the prior schema. It's recommended to use raw SQL for these migrations, as alembic does not support certain functionality (i.e cascade deletes)
well.

For more information on creating and managing migrations, [read the docs](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html#create-a-migration-script)
